okay guys I have a guest today his name
is Michael and he's a professional in
all kinds of standardized tests thank
you so much why I feel for joining me
today it's a pleasure being yeah thank
you and we're going to talk about GMAT
and you know what Michael score at 780
out of 800 and GMAT anything this is
pretty amazing like I've never met
anybody I think in school it's uncommon
car yeah I think it's well top top 5% of
theories top 1% took one person okay
yeah margin yeah yeah so I'm gonna ask
him questions how he did that and he's
also a tutor with GMAT so I think it's
gonna be very useful to hear his advice
so Michael could you please tell me like
if I want to pass GMAT and up target out
where do I start
so what are the first first of all you
start with learning where you're at so
you take either a computer Testament
prophet or maybe you just take the first
test from the official guide if you want
to know where you stand
yeah so otherwise it's meaningless
disfigure many targets yeah so an on
average like if I'm medium like average
person and I scored like this average
score on the practice test how long
would it take me to get 700 plus I'm
always asking this question it's always
a very tough one to answer there's no
such thing as your average person sorry
but like because you've got a couple out
yeah I'll explain in more detail but
it's just that depending on your
educational background and on your on
your ease it's reading difficulty texts
and on your math level things are going
to be quite different so if your score
is average but say your English is
fluent as yours for instance and you do
know some math it's one story and if
your math is really rusty it's going to
take much longer remember for the GMAT
on average if you maybe score six
hundred six hundred and twenty-two
on your first computer test and you want
to get 100 100 score you'll need maybe
three to four months that maybe the
better the best thing the closest thing
to average a can offer but ever it
doesn't make all the time - yeah yeah
yeah what I can tell my story that it
took me two months to prepare and I
scored 700 but I thought I started
really average because when I did that
practice test I thought it was all me
yeah you're just plenty smart everybody
and probably quite motivated so from say
600 to 700 in two months that's fast and
I don't want our listeners to be
discouraged because ok often they won't
be able to repeat that they don't need
more time ok so like one average three
to four months only close I've had
students who took five lessons and maybe
studied a month and got a seven sixty
year I've had students who whom it took
a year and a half together six nine
years so it's so different people okay
so if we talk about one to two part I
know there are different hacks for
certain tasks because there is for
example there is a test that you can you
know spend thirty minutes on but then
find out a way to welcome two minute the
main hack is never ever do that you
can't solve a problem in three minutes
tops don't solve it at all
you drop it like a hot plate yeah it's
good it's the surest way to get the lows
or expanding is what I would like to
finish every single question otherwise
you would you get a huge mountain yeah
so it's it a Pyrrhic victory to solve a
problem even correctly in five minutes
so the main thing is not to do that so
do you teach those hacks I was always
looking for breast locks can tell me all
the hacks for all of those shame it is
no member brad.leah room
yeah but so you do right open no I
thought you do without that teaching the
GMAT it's pointless I mean there is
content and of course I also teach that
but in addition to that you have to have
test strategy you have to know which
problems so which problems could drop
immediately we problems to maybe solve
for like a minute and then take an
educated guess you know you have all
cover a plethora of options with each
problem on the GMAT and you want to pick
the best yeah I think it you get it gas
is one of that it's not a timely report
the time yeah it usually important to
the key thing here is that it's Graduate
Management Admission Test so it's a test
for managers one of the things it tests
you have to be able to manage your
resources say imagine you're an investor
and you invest money into every project
you come by you're not going to last
long in your investing career so it's
the same on the GMAT you have to pick
your battles yeah yeah also another
important thing out when you take this
to Matt official guide and you try to
solve problems and then you look in the
answers and the way they advise you to
solve the problem doesn't have to do
anything with real test yes sometimes
unfortunately they will have solutions
which are and not just useless I would
say they're harmful like they'll give
you a patient half worth of some
algebraic equations yeah transformations
or something and I look at it and I'm
like okay I used to know how to solve
this problem I had no idea because I
have to forget that first and then I can
solve the problem again so yeah maybe
they're just concerned that people like
me who teach the GMAT won't have
students if they ever give Malaysia nice
oh yeah that's right GMAC thanks for
looking to do this yeah and also like
people who come from non-business
backgrounds mm-hmm um they have to
remember that GMAT is actually like the
quantity part it doesn't have to do
anything but business it's just pure
matter yeah actually a business
background is not important otherwise I
certainly will have you have
mathematical background yes yes I don't
know that much about business it doesn't
matter for the GMAT mhm okay
the logic here is they'll probably teach
you what we need to know about business
business course or anything he used to
have good knowledge in logic and math
it's quite like school level it's not
university level right definitely not
most there are some things which are not
school but those are not the hardest and
paintings on so then without those tasks
that we will get a school with tasks
asterisk so it's not like yes an average
task but yes it isn't close to that
right mm-hmm okay
and what about verbal part so for
non-native speaker on average it's
harder a math player wide margin okay so
it's harder because first of all it's
not your native language obviously and
second because I compete against native
speakers right yes right and also it
it's hard because uh in math know you
can solve the problem and it's very
clear whether you've sold it or not but
on verbal sometimes it's very fuzzy yeah
and the lower your level is the fuzzier
it is so then the more you study and the
more you learn the clearer and the more
logical it becomes actually verbal is
logical otherwise mathematicians will
have such a huge advantage on the GMAT
but you have to learn the right things
to understand that it's actually quite
quite clear cutting logical in most
cases
yeah but the native speakers they would
also need some time to prepare their
part yeah it's not like no Larry test or
something
no no it's a myth that native speakers
have a lot easier time repairing for the
GMAT I think the US wouldn't have such a
blooming market for Gmail wrap otherwise
native speakers would just pass the test
the test with flying colors
be done with it no okay I think it takes
him quite a lot of effort to and for
non-native speakers what would you say
that is the minimum level of English to
stop preparation
well usually upper intermediate at at
least I I think I had one student who
was closer to the intermediate level and
who got a great score but that's an
exception and he was extremely
methodical and logical so he would
really amaze me by getting questions
correctly even when he didn't know quite
a few words in the in the actual test so
that's an exception usually it needs a
fairly fluent English especially your
reading skills are important here your
speaking skills are not important yeah
because you're not speaking but your
reading skills are paramount here okay
and maybe um you could give like some
basic strategy for preparing for GMAT
like where you start so you take the
practice test
yeah next like uh I'd say you you find
your problem areas and focus on those
first but you want to to do a very
comprehensive review of all the content
knowledge a man you do practice
questions and you don't do too many
people so 5,000 that's not even G or
10,000 problems usually those problems
will be of lower quality and the main
problem sorry for that one is that your
work will be of lower quality because
you just won't have enough attention so
that's not the right strategy the right
strategy is to solve maybe a few hundred
problems the official guide and some
that's what I did yeah like 200 yeah
that is a much better strategy so just a
few hundred problems but you zero in on
any mistakes you make and you resolve
those problems a lot mm-hmm
yeah and several times not just once
yeah and I'd also say like a month
before your actual test take a practice
test see you score and then in a week
take take it again because my score was
the average of my three
this test that's that's actually pretty
normal right yeah so if you are scoring
676 80 and 650 on the GMAT crap
maybe something magical will happen
you'll get something good but I haven't
seen that happen yet
okay so first you want at least have
your target score several thousand
practice tests preferably better than
that because on test day you will be
nervous
traps yeah you're missed rest then you
want to prepare for that in advance but
still you may get lower score so you do
on to to overload stuff basically okay
and in what stage which advice to hire
tutors of high ah that strongly depends
of how much time you have and how much
money you have obviously yeah because
GMAT tutors can it be cheap because I
was interviewing like 15 tutors even
from Canada in States and somebody
charged like I don't know 50 dollars an
hour as the what is the maximum Eastern
thought he was like 600 I was like wow
okay and it wasn't really my well it
wasn't really polite to say okay taken
two years old so I continued talking to
give you realize yeah well yeah yeah
Jim atutor should be expensive um yeah
in my experience all the would you met
you doesn't know are fairly expensive
and that's Russia where they actually
way less expensive that
you